[Music]
have you ever met a person who hasn't
ever heard the story of Titanic unlikely
even if you ask a ten-year-old they'll
tell you exactly what took down the
gigantic ship however some survivors of
the sinking legend would beg to differ
here's one of their stories and surprise
it has nothing to do with an iceberg our
mean Ian publicist vodka knocked by 8
was 25 years old in the spring of 1912
he described what happened on his
journey to America on the most famous
ship in the world in his memoirs quick
history quiz do you remember when the
Titanic left the southampton dock did I
hear April 10th 1912 yeah that's right
now back to the story
in 1912 vodka nock published some books
together with his father a famous
armenian writer his task was to take the
books to America he had some health
problems so he was denied at the
consulate at first but he got the papers
he needed to enter the US after his
father pulled some strings for him vodka
not caught the legendary Orient Express
from Istanbul till aha and from there he
made it to Southampton he learned that
the nearest ship departing for the new
world was the Titanic which everyone was
talking about he was pretty excited
about the journey and arrived at the
port neatly shaven and smartly dressed
with a trendy cap and massive glasses
that were popular in the US at that time
the writer met three men with whom he
shared Kevin 804 they were two
Englishmen and a French guy from
Alison's name more n because Moran and
vodka nock were around the same age and
vodka na could speak excellent French
they quickly became friends they would
hang out on the deck at the onboard
the bar in the library none of them
could possibly imagine what would become
of the unsinkable ship just days later
they went to bed rather late on April
14th just like on the other nights
shortly after midnight something that
sounded like a big explosion woke
everyone up BAM the night lights went
out and the Englishmen were jolted from
their bunks by a strong push one of them
injured his head and another one his arm
the two new friends helped them up took
a few belongings with them and left the
cabin not knowing that they would never
step back in it vodka knock only took
his passport and all the cash he had
about fifty four dollars it was clear
that something was wrong yet it was
quiet in the corridor the young men
tried to find out what was going on none
of the crew members wanted to say
anything but a few minutes later it was
impossible to deny that the Titanic was
going underwater
vodka nock noticed the sailors were
getting the lifeboats out and commanded
they were only for women and kids some
men tried to sneak in any way but
gunshots were fired off to prevent them
from doing so vodka nock and Moran
looked at each other understanding they
had two choices stay on the sinking ship
and say goodbye to their futures or at
least try to save themselves by jumping
in the water both wanted to live and
both knew they could swim well so the
choice was obvious Moran managed to get
them to life vests vodka not put his
passport and money in a little bag and
tied it around his neck the Titanic's
bow was already underwater by that time
it must have taken them real courage
imagine you're in the middle of the high
seas on a sinking ship and you know no
one will save you right away
a lot of people in this situation
wouldn't have dared to take it to the
open water
so vodka knock and Morin jumped and got
instantly separated by a sudden way it
only made things worse because braving
this catastrophe with a friend was one
thing but doing it alone was way scarier
the water in the North Atlantic that
night was just below freezing at a scary
28 degrees Fahrenheit the young writer
felt his arms and legs go numb and he
was understandably getting weaker and
weaker every second he lost the life
vest and now his only hope for survival
was a lifeboat he was about to faint and
it wasn't getting any warmer in the
water just then he bumped into something
it was a lifeboat but if you're hoping
for a happy end at this point I'll have
to disappoint you the boat was so
overcrowded they pushed the young man
with a paddle when he tried to stick to
the boat he begged for help but they
refused to show mercy their logic was
simple one extra man in that boat could
have made it sink and no one in it would
have had a chance for survival he had to
let go of the boat and what happened
after is a miracle
vodka nak woke up alive on board another
ship that ship was the Carpathia and it
was enroute to New York with lucky
survivors on board the writer had a
terrible headache and he saw double but
what mattered most is that he escaped
from the freezing ocean how did he do it
he couldn't remember anything the next
evening the ship made it to New York
without his passport and money which he
must have lost at some point during the
rescue
vodka NOK was taken to the hospital 12
days later a woman came into the room
and all she could say through tears was
oh my dear boy she turned out to be the
person who save what cannot mrs. Astor
was in her 50s and she told the young
man a lifeboat he tried to get into
didn't actually leave without him mrs.
Astor told the sailors that the
man was her son and she wouldn't let
them go without him since she'd already
lost her husband on the Titanic it
turned out she kept vodka knots passport
and money and invited him to visit her
when he felt better after he recovered
the writer was reunited with his family
in Boston he even received all the books
he planned to sell in America since they
were travelling on a different ship
vodka NOK lived a long and happy life
and as a great storyteller he shared
what happened to him many times
interestingly he's never mentioned in
iceberg hitting the Titanic and always
spoke about an explosion if what he said
was true something must have caused that
huge explosion it could have been a fire
and quite a lot of people actually
believe that theory saying that coal was
burning in the ship's Hall that fire
would have started long before the
ship's departure and there was simply no
way to put it out
Titanic must have left with the fire
still ongoing and the flames weakening
the hull so much it couldn't survive its
meeting with the iceberg supporters of
this theory used pictures of the Titanic
leaving the docks for evidence pointing
to a huge dark mark on the hall even if
that's true though it's still not
obvious whether the fire led to an
explosion and supporters of this theory
don't deny there was an iceberg another
theory that explained the explosion
claimed that there was a German u-boat
involved in the sinking of the Titanic
the Armenian writer was in fact not the
only survivor who mentioned they heard
explosion sounds coming from somewhere
deep in the bowels of the ship and
they'd also claimed they'd seen a search
light coming from some ship shortly
after Titanic had some it wasn't a
vessel hurrying to the rescue so it
could have actually been a submarine
that surfaced to see what it had done to
the legendary ship
this theory is highly unlikely though
for several reasons first of all as you
know the Titanic sank in 1912 which was
still a time of peace no country in the
world would dare to kill thousands of
people and provoke other countries for
no reason secondly a u-boat from Europe
couldn't have gone that far in those
times and it couldn't have been
stationed in that region either it
simply wouldn't have survived there for
a long time finally hitting a target
that's moving quickly at nighttime is
still a challenge for submariners even
today and it was basically impossible in
it's hard to tell what could have made a
man who survived such a tragedy remember
things that did or didn't happen let's
hope that in the future scientists will
be able to explain all the mysteries
surrounding the Titanic so do you
believe an explosion might have killed
Titanic and there was no iceberg at all
let me know down in the comments if you
learned something new today then give
this video a like and share it with a
friend but hey don't go anywhere just
yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life